= Overview

== About workflow_on_mongoid

workflow_on_mongoid lets you use the {Workflow}[http://github.com/geekq/workflow] gem with your {Mongoid}[http://mongoid.org/] documents to add state machine functionality.

== How to use it

In your Gemfile, instead of
  gem 'workflow'

do
  gem 'workflow_on_mongoid'

That is all. Now you can use {Workflow}[http://github.com/geekq/workflow] with your {Mongoid}[http://mongoid.org/] documents. Of course, you can still continue to use  {Workflow}[http://github.com/geekq/workflow] with ActiveRecord, Remodel and plain objects. All that workflow_on_mongoid does is to add {Mongoid}[http://mongoid.org/] support. You can use all the features of {Workflow}[http://github.com/geekq/workflow] with {Mongoid}[http://mongoid.org/] models, including reflection of events & states, transition hooks, support for inherited models, etc. Just refer to the {Workflow docs}[http://github.com/geekq/workflow].


== Versioning

The version numbers of workflow_on_mongoid track the latest supported version of {Workflow}[http://github.com/geekq/workflow] . The major version number (x.x.x) matches the latest supported version of the Workflow gem, while the minor version number (0.7.0.x) tracks changes to workflow_on_mongoid itself.

The current version is 0.8.0.3 .

NOTE: workflow_on_mongoid 0.8.0 uses Mongoid 2.0.0.beta.20 . 0.8.0.1+ uses the latest Mongoid 2.0.0.rc . Please choose the appropriate version of workflow_on_mongoid based on the version of Mongoid you are using (the changes from Mongoid 2.0.0.beta to 2.0.0.rc are significant!)

== Example
  class MongoidImage
    include Mongoid::Document

    field :title
    field :status

    include Workflow

    workflow_column :status

    workflow do
      state :unconverted do
        event :convert, :transitions_to => :converted
      end
      state :converted
    end
  end

See the {tests for Mongoid}[http://github.com/bowsersenior/workflow_on_mongoid/blob/master/test/mongoid_test.rb] for more examples.

== Tests

I've included all the tests from the original workflow gem and added comprehensive tests for {Mongoid}[http://mongoid.org/] support, which is now as well-tested as ActiveRecord support. Including the existing tests ensures that workflow_on_mongoid implements support for {Mongoid}[http://mongoid.org/] documents without breaking anything.

= Project Info

workflow_on_mongoid is hosted on Github: http://github.com/bowsersenior/workflow_on_mongoid . It's a tiny project, but your contributions, forkings, comments and feedback are definitely appreciated.

= Contributors

Special thanks to:
* Guilherme Cirne (https://github.com/gcirne)
* Dariusz Gertych (https://github.com/chytreg)

Copyright (c) 2011 Mani Tadayon, released under the MIT License